High in this video we're going to look at something called lambda expressions.
So what all lambda expressions what we already know how to find and create functions in Python using
the def statement right.
We have def my phunk some parameters may be none or few.
And then a colon followed by the body of the function underneath of that very return statement optional
that returns something goes.
If we don't apply a return statement.
Python puts one in for us and essentially returns the none object but a function is something that has
a name that has parameters and that has some code that allows you to return something from the function
lambda expressions are simply another way of creating functions.
They're also called anonymous functions and we'll see why in a bit.
So let's look at the syntax for creating a lambda expression.
The first thing is we have this keyword called lambda that's a required key word.
It basically says hey I'm creating a function just like the def keyword says hey I'm creating a function.
It's followed by the parameter list the parameter list is not enclosed in parentheses.
It's just a parameter list which is optional.
In other words it may not contain any parameters in which case you wouldn't have anything after this
lambda here.
It must however be followed by the colon.
That's basically what says this is the end of my parameter list.
And then that is followed by the expression.
Now when the lambda function is called.
Right so when the function is called This expression is evaluated and returned.
So you can think of those as the body of the function.
But the expression itself returns a function object when you run this piece of code lambda.
Your parameter list call on the expression it's not actually evaluating the expression at that point.
Just like when you call def when you run the def statement right.
It's actually creating the function it's not running the function.
Well the same thing here except that this will actually return a function object.
So this expression here creates and returns a function with these parameters.
And this as the body is the return value basically of the function.
So when you run the lambda when you call the lambda function the function object that gets returned
here.
Then what happens is that it will actually evaluate and return that expression but only when it is called
not what is being created.
Just like the def the functions used.
You know that we create we aren't getting called when we run.
Def getting called later when we call the function with the parentheses.
So this expression can be assigned to a variable.
It can be even passed to an argument or as an argument to another function.
But you'll notice that it doesn't have a name right.
And def.
We provide a name for the function here.
We don't provide a name for the function it's just a function object that exists in memory but it hasn't
been assigned to a variable.
So it's basically anonymous right.
We don't have a name that we can attach to it.
That's why they're also called anonymous functions.
But it is a function just as if we had created it using def except def also assigns a name to the function.
So let's see some examples.
Lambda X call on X to the power of two.
This is basically a function with a single parameter x that will return x squared the next example here
we have Lamda X-Com a y.
So this is a function that takes two parameters X and Y and we'll return x plus why we can of course
also have a lambda expression that has no parameters.
So we call this function it will just return the string.
Hello we can also get more complicated of course.
We can say lambda Escola and we have a parameter s and we take as we revulsive and then we take it to
an uppercase.
Right so if you don't know about slicing if you don't know what does.
Don't worry about it.
We'll cover that in an upcoming video.
But if we take a look at this if we do look at the type of this expression change that will actually
return a function.
It is a true You know it's it's an honest to goodness function in Python.
Now again note that these expressions all these expressions are here are function objects that they
return a function object but they are not named.
And that's why we call them anonymous functions.
Now I want to point out something right now that and you may have run across this maybe in we were studying
other languages are reading this.
But there's sometimes confusion.
People think that lambdas or anonymous functions are closures.
No they're not.
They are not the same thing.
They're not equivalent.
Lambdas are anonymous functions can be closures but they don't have to be they just regular functions.
So you know if you're thinking that lambda is a closer no and you will look at closures later on in
the section so what can we do over lambda.
Well we can assign it to a variable name so we could do something like this.
We could say my func equals and then this lambda expression.
Remember this is an expression that returns a function.
We can assign it to a variable name.
So now we have my function my func is a type function.
So if we call Type of my func will get function we can now call it we can say my phone call it passing
it 3 while it's going to call this function and X is going to take on the value of three.
So we'll get 9 out of that.
So as you can see it just behaves like a regular function.
You can do my finger for that will return 16.
This would be identical to doing this line of code.
Def my phunk X return x squared.
But actually two lines of code right but that's exactly the same thing.
If you look at Type of my phone you'll also get that it's a function you'll get that my phunk of three
is nine in my phone for 16.
So this line of code here and this line of code here is exactly the same thing.
Right.
It's not different.
It's not that this is a special type of function versus this one not the same thing.
Now you could also pass it as an argument to another function.
So let's say we have this function here in our code called Def apply underscore phunk which takes in
two variables it takes in a variable x and it takes in another variable that I've named as and for function
so unexpecting a function in the second argument.
And all this thing does.
It's just going to call this function with the initial value that we pass.
OK so basically it's just going to call a fan of X writes going to return that now what we can do with
Lander's we can call it this way we can say apply Fung three so three is going to go into x and then
the function is going to be this thing right here right.
This is a function.
So when I call that what does it going to do while it's going to call a friend of X it's going to call
this function passing in three.
So we're going to get 9 for that result.
Similarly we could say something like this.
Apply Funk's I'm still using the same apply phunk.
Now got a variable value of two but my lambda expression is changed.
So I'm using a different function saying it's going to be X plus 5.
So in this case two plus five.
So we'll get seven.
So you can see it's pretty handy to kind of do these inline functions right these very short little
functions and we'll see where it comes in handy in other places as well.
Of course you can get a little bit more complex if you want you can call apply phunk of ABC and the
function is going to take some variable x that is indexable so we can do some slicing.
It's going to take the second character or the one index character all the way to the end and then multiply
by three.
So for example when we pass ABC it's going to take B and C and times 3.
So we'll get busy busy busy right so equivalently we could have done it this way.
Right.
We could have said death f and 1 of X return x sliced that one forward times three.
So we could have done that.
And then we can just call apply phunk ABC with an underscore one we've seen that before product pass
functions as parameters to other functions.
Well this is no different in fact this function here that returns this is the same really as this function
here does the same thing.
Now obviously this function and this function are not the same objects right.
This was created here at some memory address.
This was now another function created at some other memory address.
But in terms of functionality they do the same thing.
So now there are some limitations though to Lander's the body of a is limited to a single expression.
So it has to be a single expression which means you cannot do assignments inside a lambda function.
You can do assignments create variables in all kinds of stuff right.
In a regular function.
Well in a land though you're limited to a single expression so you can't do this for example.
Right you can't say lambda X and then said X equal to 5 that's not going to work.
Same thing with this.
Right.
This is also just an assignment.
I'm just saying X plus 5 and then assigning a back to experts the same as this really it won't work
either.
You can't do that.
You can't do annotations either.
So for example when you write a regular function you can annotate your arguments your parameters to
say well you know I really would like this to be of type and that's what I expect of course Python ignores
this when it runs and if you want to pass in a string they will be happy to do that for you of course
with this code.
That's good for you.
But you know if you pass in a float that's then a walk you know and so on.
But for example you cannot do this with a lambda right you can't put a type of notation in line and
lambda expressions.
How does it know what's going on here.
Right.
With this.
So I suppose you could have something where you know maybe the definition could be changed so that you
could put a parentheses around your arguments in which case you might be able to annotate them but that's
not going to work.
Now you can still give them default values and we'll see that.
We look at the code but it's perfectly fine to say lambda X equals 5 and then x times 2.
So if you don't specify X when you call the function I will put in the default value so that that's
false.
Ok but no notations.
Basically your the body that expression right has to be a single logical line of code.
Now you can use a line continuation that's OK because that's a physical.
Right separation no logical separation.
As we discussed earlier on in the schools.
So for example it's perfectly fine to write it like this.
I mean it's not perfectly fine from a readability standpoint but from Python's perspective it's OK with
that.
But in general you shouldn't have to split your lambdas over multiple lines if you are then you might
want to rethink what you're doing and maybe use a def def is something that allows you to have more
complex functions.
Lambdas are meant to be used for simple you know simple expressions that you want to do something with.
And we'll see some examples of that.
So let's switch to some code and see how that works.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.